## Milestone Number
2a.3

## Context (Aim) 

| Number        | Workshop      | Date         | Duration     |
| ------------- | ------------- |------------- |------------- |
| 3.1 | Brainstorming (1/2)  |25.10.2022 - 3.30PM CET|90min|
| 3.2 | Brainstorming (2/2) |28.10.2022 - 3PM CET|90min|

This week the group has focused on understanding how Blockchain can help in the five main Media Areas below:

- Sharing and Distribution
- Monetisation
- Verification
- Archiving
- Production

taking into account six different Angles:

- Users
- Needs & Opportunities
- Mechanisms
- Technologies
- Challenges
- Products & Results
 
Walid Al-Saqaf, Associate Professor in Journalism at Södertörn University in Stockholm, has run two brainstorming sessions to fill a matrix with the information from the two dimensions above: 5 Media Areas vs. 6 Angles.

## Output

To get a sense of the group’s interests, a survey has been carried out among the six main Media Areas, which has determined the order to follow:

| Area        | Users      | Needs & Opportunities         | Mechanism     |Technologies     |Challenges     |Products & Results     |
| ----------- | ---------- |------------------------------ |-------------- |-----------------|---------------|-----------------------|
| Sharing & Distribution | - Content creators, included but not limited to: writing NFTs, web browser producers, social media posts 

- Content consumers, including end users and influencers to boost the network effect.

- News & Government Agencies

- Corporations

- Media organisations

- Direct & Indirect audiences

- Social platforms: Facebook, Twitter, Youtube & Google. Each of them with their own policies and strategies.

|- Instead of paid subscriptions on a web2 newsletter platform, such as Substack, Web3 enables content creators and community builders to manage their audience through memberships using either NFTs or ERC-20 tokens.

- IP rights (provenance)

- Expanding audience reach

- Controlling the revenue earned from the content you produce (with immutability and traceability and provenance factors) via royalties or other means in ever changing hands

- Crediting  the publisher and tracking the IP: for a  publisher, an opportunity could be neighbour rights, e.g. being paid by GAFA when they are using the publisher content

- Building standards to engage and attract an audience (mostly younger generations). 

- Building community & interactive (network effects again).

- On-chain sharing or engagement with NFT purchases creates a signal which can be used for audience development, advertising, etc.

|- Across platforms. How? Ubiquity & Immutability  

- Avoid middlemen, e.g. for the content consumers, would it be something like a marketplace? In other words, if you get a great photo of a natural disaster you can post it in the platform and media companies can use it without bombarding you with messages.

- Secondary market with more variety of products (less volume): long tail vs. short tail.

- Trigger to original content

- Web3 to increase the number of data to train models for Machine Learning

|- Web3 (still aspirational) to connect with any compatible systems (browsers?).

- DAO

- NFT to guarantee provenance and traceability. NFT has a membership proof to have the right to share and distribute

- Custom/dedicated blockchain.

- Permissioned (=non public, less equality) vs. Public (more democratic)  blockchains 

- We need a dedicated parachain covering all the use cases that we identified, a web3 standard for exchanging content and monetization, and a browser plugin

|- Lack of compatibility: our solution should be simple enough to be used across any language/blockchain (with the needed adjustments)

- As consumers are not ready yet, tech should be invisible and super easy to use.

- Factoring the competition in: Polkadot vs. Cosmos, etc.

- Democratizing journalism can harm the newsroom: How do we filter? Trust? 

- Uncertainty. Blockchains continue to evolve. At the moment, it is not known which one will be suitable for journalism or content creation, but it is most likely that there will be several, and whatever they are, must be interoperable. So far, thanks to DAOS and NFTs, we have seen a high degree of engagement.  

- Compatibility. The current state of the art must be compatible with the proposed solution.

|- Improved registration and paywalls to tailor the user experience. Web3 can bring one set of content/services tailored to each user, and a membership rather than a subscription. Subscribers can discuss between them and with journalists on next features, services and topics to include in the subscription offer.


- Web3 powered newsletters: 
1. Joining Web2 & Web3
2. Dirt, a web3 native publication run in Ethereum
- pubDAO.: A media DAO seeking to redefine media production and distribution using web3 tools. |
